# TivaC-Series-Temperature-sensor-with-LEDs
This lab is designed to further the individual’s understanding of the expansion capabilities of the Digilent Orbit BoosterPack. In its simplest form, this lab is designed to show how to utilize the I2C bus to transmit and receive data from the Digilent Orbit Board’s onboard temperature sensor. It will continue to introduce the individuals with concepts involving UART and communicating through the serial interface PuTty.

UART, which stands for Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter, is a peripheral device on the Tiva LaunchPad. This hardware is basically a two wire system that has one transmitting data while the other receives data. The parallel data has to be converted to serial for the data to be able to be transferred over a cable with the communication standard of RS-232. It is universal due to the adjustability of the transmission speed in which the baud rate can be set to the user’s specification.  In this lab, the UART is utilized to display the temperature on the serial monitor using the program PuTTy. The Digilent Orbit board has an onboard temperature sensor that uses a serial protocol, the I2C bus, to communicate and transfer the data between devices. It uses two wires, the Serial Clock (SCL) and Serial Data (SDA), to connect low speed devices such as the temperature sensor. 

Procedure

To begin, the #define directive is used to assign the address of the temperature sensor to 0x4F, as well as setting the API library functions specific to our hardware. The function prototypes are declared for the header to be printed, to read the temperature sensor, and to set the temperature starting value. Because we are utilizing the I2C bus, the correct Port and pins need to be configured, in this case, Port B pins 2 and 3. For transmitting and receiving data, the UART also needs to be enabled. The GPIO pin for the UART receiving line is Port A pin 0 while the transmitting line is GPIO Port A pin 1. The last ports and pins that need to be enabled are the LEDs 1-4 on the Digilent Orbit Board.

The two function prototypes that were declared need to be called and defined. The Set_Temp_Start() function generates a starting temperature value, so it only needs to run once. The Read_temp() function is used to create the comparisons between the read and initial value calculated by the Set_Temp_Start() function. Depending on the difference in temperatures, it will illuminature LED 1, 2, 3, or 4 to signal the number of degrees the temperature either increased or decreased for that cycle.  

